Thank you again, thank you very much Professor Murali Froganiam, and again thank you very much for
your coming, and thank you very much for organizing this event and coming out here every year, and
I'm very, very happy.
We used to go with my brother, very great teacher, and we used to go, and he and my wife so many
times, William Patterson since making in 80s, 80s, and we had the opportunity to visit your
beautiful school or the universities, and the great halls, and have beautiful delicious lunch, and
then in the cafeteria or there, and then go by, so there's a lot of memories of William Patterson
University.
Universities and I'm very grateful and honored to see you, and meet with you again in discussing
the teaching, according to my knowledge and capabilities.
Thank you again, and so now I understand you all starting, particularly this time, Buddhism, and
also among the Buddhism, and just exploring the meanings of the random and the yendong texts, so I
will try and tell you a little bit about this.
Generally you already know, all teachings of Buddhism came from Buddha, and who came 600 years ago,
and he was one of very kind, compassionate, and wise, and very beautiful, adaptable, great teachers
in human history, and truly he brought great peace and joy, harmony, and respect, and thankfulness,
and confidence, and trust to each other, and themself, and hope, and vision. All that we discuss
and tell in the human world we want, then he explodes in the world that's so beautiful to everyone,
and his kindness and compassion and love has no discriminations at all, by any means.
All the living beings, you see, everyone has beautiful, everyone is existing, because everyone,
because they're there, because powerful of us or something, there's nothing, everyone is so related
, connected, and beautifully, and biologically, and emotionally, feeling level, and many levels, it
's the same, and he has planned that.
Truly, it's not just the making of that, but he said this is what it is, all nature is.
So within that contrast, this is not only yet to get true, because you all know Buddha's teaching.
Every living being has inherited Buddha nature. Everyone can become like him, that means.
By him, or there is also in Buddhism, there's many great enlightened beings, Buddhas, Pimal Buddhas
.
So this enlightenment of Buddhahood is not reserved by anyone, selected groups.
Everyone, if they work for their nature, their beauty, and goal, with it right where, according to
the contrast, where the nature is harmonizing, break that, then we can explore and bring,
be ourself, as like Buddha, and that's what, because he said, everyone, he's not just making up,
and he's trying to kind of nice and polite,
but that is the way the practice are. Everyone is in that natural status.
So with that level, that contrast, and then this Rangdong and Yedong became, and generally, Rangd
ong, Yedong, of course, I think you must have studied,
it comes from Buddha nature. And this is, Buddha nature is, in Buddhism, known as Osanskic language
, is known as Dathagatangarbam,
or the potential or the nature of the Buddha, Dathagata nature.
This Dathagata nature is inherited to every single living being.
If they have feeling, they have thought, and they have emotions, they know what they're doing, and
they like to hope, and vision, and goal,
or that every living being inherited, that nature, there is no really difference to everyone.
So everyone has this nature. And even though externally they may be experiencing many different
difficulties,
and circumstances, up and down, and all these things, but in the reality level, everyone has this
nature, and so beautifully staying.
And in Buddhism, also called, there's not just only we came at first time. There is life after life
we go through.
And not just this is the beginning of our we will go life after life in the future, but we came, we
did that in the past.
According to Buddhism, there's so many lives that we talk.
Even no matter what the situation, the circumstances, and challenges we go through, Buddha nature,
this Dathagata Garbha is never really changed by any means.
It remains the same as it is.
When you are heavily obscured, you are heavily in the trouble, in a difficult situation, Buddha
nature is never changed.
And when you are in a creative pine, or pond in a time, good time in everything, that it also
really didn't change anything.
Nature remains the same nature as it is. So that is the Buddha's teaching generally.
And this is of course the teaching comes from India and went to Tibet.
And so, and when it came to Tibet, then this random and gentle terminologies are kind of like,
they brought up and the great masters and great thinkers, these great logicians, they really
brought up.
And then they start debating on these things, random and gentles.
And I think you already started, random, what means?
Random is both terminologies that are written.
Random means self-empty, or empty, self is empty.
Run is self and is empty, self is empty, or self-nature is empty.
Self-nature is, yendong means is empty by the others, other components, empty by the other
components.
So, which they are talking about, is talking about this Buddha-nature, Dathangata-garbha.
And they say, Buddha-nature, self is empty.
Self-nature of the Buddha-nature is empty, and that is known as runtong.
And some other great masters used to highlight this terminology, yendong.
Buddha-nature, the other components are empty.
So that's indicating something is not empty.
This also came in the Buddha's teaching.
It's not just that these great masters start interpreting different ways.
Buddha-nature, Buddha-teaching, what it says in Mahayana teachings,
but regularly this terminology is very popular and famous in the Mahayana Buddhism.
Buddhism, in the Mahayana Buddhism, again, there are many Buddhism schools,
and this Mahayana Buddhism, what is the teaching said?
In one of those great many suttas, everyone says that in one of those known as suttas,
known as Mahapari Naranasuttas.
In Mahapari Naranasuttas, Buddha said, "Before Buddha is going to pass away in our language,
going to pass away, he gives a lot of teachings, a lot of seminary teachings."
And those are all teachings that are connected together,
and known as then the teaching before the passing way, teaching of the before passing way.
In that teaching, for example, this is just one example.
That teaching said Buddha is permanent.
Buddha is continuation.
Buddha is absolute.
Buddha is indestructible.
Buddha is never changed.
That's what the Buddha said.
Buddha is permanent.
So with this, this many great masses, oh, Buddha nature is not empty.
Kind of like, say, it says it's permanent.
It's like indestructible.
There's nothing changed.
So therefore, what is empty?
What is going to empty of the components are the cover of things.
Buddha nature is covered by the many defilements.
That is empty. That is going to release or removed.
But nature itself is not empty.
That remains same as it is.
For that is called then yin-tung.
So yin is what?
The other components is those emotions, those obscurations,
what the Buddhism calls obscurations.
That is going to be emptied.
That is empty.
That is going to leave out of the Buddha nature.
But the Buddha nature will stay remained.
That nature remains, stay remained.
And some other great masters said again in the Buddha's teaching.
That is, for example, in all the teachings of the Pandya Paramatas.
Buddha said there is nothing is, anything is existing
from the samsara to all the within the Rana or to the enlightenment.
Everything is empty.
Everything is empty. There is nothing is really existing.
Anything that is substantially solid, everything is empty.
And all the humanity, all the form is emptiness.
And sound is emptiness.
And trees is emptiness.
Smell is emptiness.
And everything, the mass is emptiness.
Metal is emptiness.
Everything is, even the enlightenment is empty.
Emptiness.
So that means its nature is empty.
In that status, then these great masters use the terminology.
Rantang.
The self is empty, empty, empty.
Self nature is empty.
So therefore, these two terminologies arises in this Tibetan Buddhism.
These great masters started, then lot of debate on this, these issues that you, maybe that, those
books.
And that our, the migration teacher and the brother, Kenji Vardhisharambhuchi.
And he's also, of course, I had opportunity to join with him and to have those books.
So in that teaching, then explaining that how all is empty.
So this is the, what really is started.
Now everybody kind of talk, how we will know that we have the Buddha nature.
And that is again, in that teaching, must be read in the book.
And again, the great masters many times mentioned.
Mentioned because we obviously will know that everyone has Buddha nature.
And that is a very famous Indian great master.
And also, according to Buddhism, he will be coming future.
He will become one of the great teachers or the Buddhas in the future.
And in his teaching, his teaching, then what he said?
He said, everyone has Buddha nature.
No one is exception.
I mean, he said, and I said, well, as the Buddha Shakyamuni said many times.
That as he can highlight that, he said, everyone has Buddha nature.
Because you see the Buddhas, you see the Buddha Buddha Buddha.
And therefore everyone has enlightenment nature, nature Buddha.
And and then the nature.
So you see the Buddha and nature is the same.
Everyone has the potential.
That's what his great master said.
So what that actually really means.
And we use this kind of like simple.
I'm trying to put the simple.
Even though it's a big talk.
But trying to use the simple.
And we use the examples of that.
And there is a lot of like, maybe I use examples.
A lot of orange seeds.
When you eat the oranges.
Orange seed comes, right?
So there's so many orange seeds.
In one side we eat all the orange seeds.
In the other side we see the orange itself.
One orange.
So now we're going to look to these two things.
The seed of oranges and orange itself.
And now we say, hey, somebody said, hey.
Where this orange comes from?
This orange comes from where?
It comes from.
Then they start to think, where this orange comes from?
I see the orange, definitely.
It's beautiful.
Beautiful, golden, whatever, that's yellow, round.
Where that comes from?
And then somebody said, hey, this is true.
You see this?
But it comes from maybe really from this seed.
There's so many seeds hanging out.
There's one orange.
Definitely, I think this orange comes really from this seed.
This from seed.
Seed.
So therefore, by seeing this, this orange is not just going to come by itself.
It's just happening, it's not.
But it really came, truly from this.
So therefore, this orange seed, even though this time don't really look like orange.
Orange, but definitely it has the orange potential to become orange potential.
Because I see there's this beautiful oranges.
That's what we call, known as by looking at the result, the fruit,
and the doping of using the inference, truly this seed has potential to develop this, this orange.
That's what in Buddhism we call, because you see the result.
Therefore, at that, this seed have that potential.
That potential definitely exists, even though you don't see now.
And then we see, again, now the second question.
Even though you have the seed, you see these two things.
But how that can happen?
How? How that can happen?
That is the name this great master used.
Nature is equal.
Nature has no partialities.
The pervasive nature is equal.
It's called the equanimity status, emptiness.
All the openness, the infinite, the freedom.
Same thing, nature is not discriminatory.
Oh, I like this seed only, and I don't like this.
Oh, I like only this orange, I don't like the seeds, the seeds.
Never say, nature is open.
If there is a circumstance and a condition put together with this,
this, definitely this will, this can develop to this.
Nature is completely open, equal, equal.
Therefore, if this made circumstances and conditions
of joyful effort or conditions that accordingly nature needed,
not something completely different, but accordingly that harmonizing beautifully,
then definitely this will become this orange.
Orange.
So that is then the second, this reason, the nature is equal.
Therefore, every living being can get enlightenment.
Every day walked hard.
Every day did the right ways.
It's not just walking hard and selfish enough, but right ways.
Every year do this, this.
And put that again with this.
Now you look to the, suppose you look to the orange, it's sun,
and it's kind of like deducting or for an inference,
this seed will develop the orange.
It will, this seed, this result come from orange seed.
And now, so third one is looking itself, itself.
From the seed side to the result, result, result.
Hey, I see this group.
Hi, this group say that.
Hi, looks like this orange is the other side.
How we can these oranges?
They all talking.
I think so.
We have the same potential.
Every we do the right way, whatever he did or this orange did,
every we do the right way.
I think I will become like this tree because nature is open again.
Same way, nature is equally open and natural.
So, therefore, therefore, everyone has opportunity.
That's it.
This great master use reason.
It's called reason.
Reason that everyone can get enlightenment
and develop the right ways.
Right ways, not the wrong ways, right ways, right?
What is right ways?
And that is harmonize again.
Harmonize exactly the nature itself.
We're the nature.
That means this case.
Nature of the Buddha.
Buddha nature.
I'll talk about that.
What is Buddha nature is now?
Buddha nature is, is now what it's talking.
Buddha nature is love, true love, true compassion, true wisdom,
true respect and appreciation.
That is nature's component and openness, freedom.
That is nature as that.
So, now what we have to do right way is to do right, right way to do it.
Then harmonize, exactly as it is.
Bring more love, more kindness, more compassion,
more respect and appreciation, more openness, more discriminate in that.
That activates whatever you continue to do.
And then what it does is radiating that energy, that power, that qualities.
But at the same time, it's exploring the beauty.
You glorify your own beauty, your own beauty of the Buddha nature.
As it is developing, as it's expanding, bending,
then it's known as in Buddhism, following the path.
You really develop, following your developing.
This path is not following externally some path, but it's inner path, inner journey.
You really exploring, developing.
As much as we develop, that much is expanding.
Because Buddha nature is limitless, is boundless.
The power of the Buddha nature is boundless and limitless, boundless.
It's totally pervasive.
Even Buddhism, the Buddha teaching, it's like sky.
And what we did, what we did, why we become like this, this,
because we did the unreleased activities.
Something not natural to this, to the Buddha nature, we did.
Which is then kind of self-important.
And then we developed to make the self-important, to protect the self-important,
we kind of developed such as known attachment.
And then to protect or to glorify that, that our self is thought to be.
And then we developed anger, hesitation, doubt,
jealous, and so forth, disrespectful, harsh.
All those comes, all those comes, those are not natural.
Because the nature of the Buddha, our nature, is your nature.
Our nature, that is love, kindness, compassion,
joy and appreciation.
And that is then opposite, is disrespectful.
Opposite with love is what?
Unkindness or anger.
Opposite of compassion is attachment.
And opposite of love and kindness is jealous.
And all that we developed, and what it does,
is then it's kind of like completely cover up, cover up our Buddha nature
and become completely shield.
And then we are, our Buddha nature is not really shining very strongly beautifully,
as should be, because of cover of this.
So therefore, then this is, this is when it's developed,
that all this, this cover of things, when it happened,
it's called, it's happened since we started self-important attitudes.
Or ego-cleaning Buddhism.
Cleaning, that happened.
This is not really the nature of the Buddha.
Buddha nature is unnatural.
Therefore, that can be released.
That can be removed, because it's temporarily developed.
It's an everlasting, it's not natural.
It can be released, removed, and that is known as gentle.
It's something that you removed, that you can remove.
Clean up that, clean up, and that, that is gentle philosophy.
And then nature is then begin to shine as much as we clean up
and cover up that release as clothes begin to shine that.
That is the gentle technique, which is very beautiful technique.
Same thing.
But then, what is random?
And this random is then, again, nature is empty.
Nature itself has no solid entities, even though it is.
It's continuity there, but it's not something that solid metal or mass,
or is not like solid malacres or atoms, right?
Atoms.
It's not.
It's open freedom.
That is known as the random.
It's self-empty.
And both are completely natural.
The outskirt or surface or this goal of things is removed.
And then that nature is totally open, relaxed, even the continuation,
that quality is continuing, but there are no substantial entities
that exist as solid levels.
Why did Buddha use those terminology as a permanent,
all those permanent, indestructible?
Because that nature, call it this, is permanent.
It's not permanent in the sense of the solid, as a concrete object,
but it's continuously inherited.
Nature exists, all living, living right here.
It's nothing changed.
Today, for that reason, it is Buddha used as terminally, as permanent,
interchangeable, indestructible, because nature is always as like sky.
Sky never changes.
Sky we can say permanent.
But there is no substrate, solid, existing, entity of skies.
Same say Buddha nature is.
So is permanent and as indestructible is not solid, existing.
For those reasons, what in the teaching always said,
Buddha nature is the beyond of the permanent and impermanence.
Buddha nature is beyond of the existing and non-existence.
This existing and non-existing thought is our duality mind.
Mind trying to hold something.
Holding is again the same thing.
It's grasping.
It's not naturals.
We have to release that ties.
And then we will reword the true beauty of us,
nature has and Buddha nature has.
So that is my really kind of like talk and introductions of the Buddha nature.
If you have some questions, then I'm happy to discuss.
Is?
Yes.
How do we...